This jail will be managed and controlled by the Sheriff and his/her staff.
You will treat the Corrections Staff with courtesy and due respect at all times. Any misbehavior, disrespect, or profanity will be investigated, and if appropriate, charges will be filed.
YOU WILL OBEY ALL RULES OF THE JAIL AND THE JAILER’S INSTRUCTIONS.
While in custody, you will be expected to comply with the following rules, which have been made to maintain proper custody, control, and safety of the inmate population.
ALL INMATES will conduct yourself in an orderly manner, and show RESPECT for the rights of other inmates and their property.
NO INMATE will assign work to another inmate, control another inmate, or supervise another inmate in any way.
Any inmate filing a Grievance Form must do so within five days of the date the act occurred.
Administration will reply back within ten working days of receipt of the Grievance Form.
Inmates are required to follow all oral and written orders immediately when given by the jail staff or sheriff’s department staff.
No inmate shall threaten (verbally or physically), strike, use profanity or obscene gestures against, or throw anything at, a jail staff member, another inmate, or visitor.
Inmates who violate the jail rules are subject to discipline and/or criminal charges according to the Policy and Procedures of the Grant County Jail.
Inmates are subject to room, locker, and strip searches at any time per Policy and Procedures.
Covering or tampering with any security equipment including cameras is in direct violation of the rules and will not be tolerated. The covering of any camera or view port is a Class B Violation and will result in Discipline of 1 or more of the following penalties: disciplinary Detention up to 30 days, loss of one, or a number of privileges for up to 60 days, loss of up to 2 days of “Good Time", cell restriction for up to 30 days.
Inmates shall not alter in any way the condition of the walls, ceilings, locks, windows, vents, or any other fixture or equipment of the Grant County Jail. This includes tampering with televisions, television outlets, cables, or cords. If tampering occurs, the television shall be removed.
Plugging a sink, shower drain, or toilet is prohibited.
No fires of any kind are permitted.
DO NOT throw any object in a cell, or day room, or any other place within the confines of the Grant County Jail.
Inmates will wake up when breakfast is served.
Inmates cannot change their bunk assignments without permission from the jail staff.
Jail uniforms will be worn at all times when inmates are not in their cells. This includes the day room area, library, conference rooms, and all other areas of the jail. The only exception will be going to and from the shower, at which time the inmate shall be covered with a towel.
Inmates will be allowed to sleep in their underclothes with all private areas appropriately covered.
Inmates shall not be in another inmate’s cell.
Inmates shall not steal anything from anyone.
No inmate shall deface, damage, alter, or destroy jail property or the property of another inmate in any way. Criminal charges will be brought against the inmate for any such actions. Inmates will be assessed the cost to replace/repair destroyed property.
Inmates shall not engage in selling, buying, lending, borrowing, or trading of anything with another inmate.
Inmates are not allowed to gamble or play games of chance.
Standing on tables or benches is prohibited.
No sitting on top of the tables in the day room.
No mattresses are allowed in the day room area.
Talking or yelling, or any other means of communication between cellblocks, vents, doors, or windows is prohibited. This includes moving from the cellblock to another destination in the jail.
There will be NO POUNDING on the walls, tables, or any other fixtures in the jail.
It is prohibited to yell through the food pass; pass notes, books, magazines, etc. from one cellblock to another.
DO NOT converse with, or have contact with, an inmate of the opposite sex.
DO NOT pass notes to, or from inmates or visitors, either in person, or by placing notes in books, or other places for other inmates to find.
No inmate shall communicate false information.
Inmates shall not agitate, incite, or otherwise provoke other inmates to disobey the jail rules.
No inmate will cause, provoke, plan or participate in a riot or rebellion of any kind.
No inmate shall possess or use any substance, which may affect the inmate's mental or physical functioning, unless jail staff lawfully dispenses such a substance to the inmate.
No inmate shall use or consume any alcoholic beverages, marijuana, or any controlled substance.
Prescription drugs and medications will be taken by the inmate in the manner prescribed.
Jail staff will conduct a breath test, and do random urinalysis on any inmate suspected of consuming alcoholic beverages or abusing any controlled substances.
Any type of gang membership, gang activity, display of gang signs or display of gang colors is prohibited.
No inmate shall make or possess any instrument, which could be used as a tool for escape, or used to assault jail staff or another inmate.
Tape or compact disc players are NOT allowed in the jail.
Lock-up time will be at 10:00 PM each night with no exceptions. Televisions will be turned off at that time. Items the inmate wishes to take into their cell must be taken into the cell prior to lock-up.
Contraband is defined as any item, or substance, which cannot legally be in your possession, or which is forbidden by the jail policy or rules.
Inmates cannot bring, or attempt to bring contraband into the jail.
The Grant County Jail is a smoke-free facility. Smoking or tobacco chewing, by inmates, is prohibited. While in jail inmates cannot have cigarettes, cigars, snuff, chewing tobacco, matches, lighters, or any type of smoking or tobacco paraphernalia. This includes the Huber lockers and dormitory.
Food products may only be purchased through the commissary. Food products will be stored in inmate totes. Inmates are NOT allowed to have food items that are brought or mailed to them in jail.
Canteen items purchased at another correctional facility will not be allowed in unless it is an identical item available on our commissary list. (no exceptions)
Food not consumed during meals will be returned with the food tray. Food will not be kept by inmates. Do NOT flush any food items down the toilet. All unauthorized food items in an inmate’s possession will be confiscated as contraband and disposed of. Repeated violations will result in discipline.
No jewelry will be allowed except wedding rings. All rings on or in any body part, or any other pierced or piercing mechanism, such as studs, shall be removed and placed in the inmate’s personal property.
Inmates are not allowed to have any money in their possession.
Inmates in possession of more than the allotted number of jail issued bedding, towels, clothing, mattresses or pillows will have the excess items removed, and the inmate may be considered in violation of the jail rules.
No metal, glass, or spray containers will be allowed in the inmate’s possession unless authorized.
Special permission to have items not listed above must be approved by the Jail Administrator before the items can be allowed in the cell, or cell block. All such requests shall be made in writing on a REQUEST FORM.
If you are found to be in possession of contraband you may be subject to criminal charges.
In the event you are observed, or suspected to be in violation of the jail rules, the staff member making the observation shall prepare and submit a written report to their supervisor within 24 hours of the violation.
Minor violations are those violations of the jail rules for which a minor penalty or penalties may be imposed.
The staff member who observed an inmate committing a minor violation shall inform the inmate of the rule that the inmate has violated, the possible penalty, and the disciplinary procedures for a minor rule violation.
A penalty for a Minor violation may consist of any of the following: verbal or written reprimand, restriction of privileges for 24 hours or less, placement in punitive segregation for 24 hours or less.
The purpose of the appeal is to give the inmate a way to have inappropriate actions removed from their disciplinary records only.
3 or more violations of the same minor rule on an inmate’s record will result in having the penalty phase being escalated to a major violation. The inmate will be subject to the penalties listed for a major violation.
Major violation means a violation of the jail rules for which a major penalty or penalties may be imposed if the accused inmate is found guilty.
A penalty for a major violation may consist of any of: restrictions of privileges for more than 24 hours, placement in punitive confinement for more that 24 hours, loss of good time.
Restriction of work release privileges for up to 5 consecutive days per violation.
If a major violation of Huber rules has occurred, the Sheriff, Chief Deputy, or Jail Administrator may petition the court for loss of Huber privileges for more that 5 days, or for permanent loss of Huber privileges.
A due process hearing will be held, unless the inmate waives their rights to such a hearing. If the inmate waives their rights to a due process hearing, the violation shall be disposed of in accordance with the procedures for major violations.
If the inmate chooses to have a hearing, they have the right to be present at the hearing, to make a statement, and to present relevant evidence. The inmate has the right to call witnesses, unless the presence of the witness could cause harm to anyone involved.
The inmate may be represented by a staff advocate. The inmate may appeal the hearing officer’s decision. The appeal must be submitted in written form within 24 hours of the hearing.
There are several forms available to allow you to request, authorize, or communicate information to staff members.
The Administrator Special Request form can be used to request or convey specific information to the jail administrator for their consideration or approval. The inmate making the request must sign and date this form before any administrative action will be taken.
If you are requesting to make a phone call, please include on your request the name of the person who you wish to call, their complete phone number, and why you need to call them.
If you feel that you need to speak to a specific staff member like the sheriff, jail administrator, corrections officer, detective, or any other member of the department, the request must be made in writing on this request form.
The request should be turned over to a jail staff member. The jail staff member will forward the request to the applicable staff member.
A response to the request will be provided as soon as possible. How long the response takes depends upon the availability of the staff member. The request may also be deferred to another staff member who would be able to handle the request.
These request forms can be obtained when the canteen is delivered.
The inmate requesting medical services must complete the Medical Request form. Inmates must sign and date this form before any action will be taken.
All medical request forms are treated with confidentially by the staff.
Please be specific with the information you wish to convey to the medical staff.
Inmates requesting to see the nurse shall do so on this form.
If at any time during your incarceration at this facility you feel you need medical attention, you may request to see the nurse. The nurse will examine you, suggest treatment, or will seek treatment information from the jail physician.
If you have a medical emergency, or feel your medical condition cannot wait to see the nurse, you should notify the jail staff immediately.
These medical request forms can be obtained when canteen is delivered.
If, after admission and processing into the jail, you are unable to post bond, pay a fine, or otherwise secure your release, you will be assigned to a receiving cell or cell block.
On the next available court date, you will be arraigned if you are being incarcerated on new criminal charges.
All inmates, regardless of charge, or circumstance, are placed in restraints for each court appearance at the Grant County Court House.
As a rule, most initial bond hearings will be held at the jail via video conferencing with the judge at the courthouse.
Inmates will appear for court in their jail uniform.
Street clothing may only be worn to a jury trial, or if the inmate is appearing at a jury trial as a witness. Street clothing must be supplied either by the inmate, attorney, or family. The jail will not provide clothing for such court appearances.
During your court appearance conditions for your release may be met. If your release has been ordered, but you are wanted by another agency, or jurisdiction, the agency will be notified that you are available. You will be detained until the agency arrives for transport, or until your release conditions have been satisfied. (i.e. bail, sentence, etc.)
Inmates will be required to abide by court imposed bail conditions, (i.e. no contact with certain individuals, which includes phone calls, mail, etc). Violations of this type will be considered bail jumping and will be reported to the District Attorney.
Inmates may consult with their attorney in the visiting booth of the jail. Communications between inmate and their attorney will be private and confidential.
Attorneys have the right to exchange legal papers with their client, but are prohibited from exchanging any other articles without permission from the jail staff.
All scheduled release times are between 6:30 A.M. and 8:00 A.M.
Pending your release from the Grant County Jail you will make sure your cell is clean. If your cell does not met the requirements of the releasing officer, you will not be released until it is clean.
Payment will be required on any damaged property or additional charges may be filed for damages.
You will also be required to pay any and all medical expenses you have incurred while incarcerated.
If, at the time an inmate is released from the Grant County Jail, and the inmate still owes the jail money for medical care, dental care, prescription, or non-prescription medication costs, the inmate will be given an opportunity to set up a monthly payment plan with the Jail Administrator.
If you fail to take all of your personal property at the time of your release from custody, you will have up to 1 year after your release to recover you property before it will be disposed of.
If you are going to prison you must make arrangements for someone to pick up your property within 1 year or it will be disposed of.
Inmates will be allowed a total of 4 names on your visiting list.
Inmates will be allowed to change your list once a month. This change must take place by the 8th day of the month. This is done by completing a new visiting list. Only one name per line. This includes minor children.
Do NOT tell staff to add or delete a name on the cisiting list.
Inmates must fill out visitor’s list completely with full name, relationship, age and address of visitor.
If staff are unable to read the name or information the person will not be allowed to visit.
Visitors under the age of 18 must be an inmate's immediate family member and accompanied by an adult family member. (i.e. children, brothers, sisters, stepchildren) Children shall not be left unattended.
Visitors who bring minor children will NOT be allowed to visit the inmate unless another adult is present to care for the children in the lobby while the visitor is in the visiting room. At no time will such minor children be left unattended or uncontrolled.
If a violation of this rule occurs, the inmates visit with the offending person will be terminated. The names of visitors violating this rule will be removed from the inmates visiting list.
Each person entering the visiting room will be counted as a visitor. All visitors must show a photo ID when asked for verification of age.
Only approved visitors on the list will be allowed in for visits. All others will be turned away. This does not apply to attorneys visiting inmates. You do not need to place the name of your attorney(s) on your visiting list.
The jail staff will not accept requests from individuals to be put on an inmate’s list. Individuals wishing to be on an inmates visiting list, must send a letter in the mail to the inmate, asking the inmate to put them on the their visiting list.
Visits will last a maximum of 15 minutes. Jail staff may allow a longer visit if no other inmates have a visitor waiting to see them.
A visitor can only see one inmate per visit. A visitor’s name cannot be on more than one inmate’s visiting list during the same visit.
If the visitor's name is on more than one inmates list at the same time, it will be removed from the most recent list.
There will be no contact visits allowed.
Absolute sobriety will be required of all visitors. Visitors suspected of being under the influence of an intoxicant or drugs will not be allowed to visit.
Visitors that become unruly, or demanding with staff, will be denied visitation and ask to leave.
Property damage to the visiting booths, by inmate, or visitor, will result in the loss of visiting privileges.
Money for inmates will only be accepted two ways: money for inmates may be deposited in the teller machine in the lobby and money for inmates may be sent to the jail by mail.
Anything other than money, must have prior approval by jail administration before being dropped off, or mailed to the jail for an inmate.
Former inmates must have been out of jail for a period of at least 60 days prior to be listed on a current inmate’s visiting list.
Items no longer needed or wanted by an inmate in jail, shall be mailed out at the inmate's expense.
No photographs are allowed to be taken.
There shall be NO INCOMING PHONE CALLS for any inmate, unless such a call is an emergency, and the emergency can be verified.
You WILL NOT be allowed to call someone at another phone number if the number you are trying to call has a phone block.
If the inmate would like them to remove the phone block, (provided we have the block placed, and not their phone carrier), the inmate will need to write them a letter. In the letter the inmate will need to ask them to write a letter to the Jail Administrator requesting the block be removed.
The phone must be listed with the phone company in the person's name making the request.
A special phone request must be made in writing, to the Jail Administrator, to call individuals that do not accept collect calls.
Family members may set up a phone account with the phone provider Securus. They may do so by calling 1-800-844-6591.
Attempting to make a 3-way call, or completing a 3-way call will result in the phone number being blocked.
Calls of a threatening nature will result in the phone number being blocked.
You may put in as many pages as allowed by the U.S. Post Office per stamp in your envelope.
If your letter is overweight, it will be returned to you. You can remove some pages, or separate the pages into two or more letters.
We will not add any needed postage for you to your letters.
The only things on the envelope should be the inmate’s full name, and the return address of the jail in the upper left-hand corner of the envelope, and the full name and address of the person the letter is being sent to. Mail that does not adhere to this rule will be returned to the inmate.
You must use the following return address:(Inmate's Name), Grant County Jail, 1000 North Adams St, Lancaster, WI 53813
There shall not be any drawings or markings on either side of the envelope.
If an inmate does not have any money in their canteen account for a 7 day stretch, they will be considered as indigent. They will be given 1 free envelope, and 1 sheet of paper each week.
Indigent inmates are allowed one free letter per week. If the inmate sends more than one letter per week the other letters will be returned to them.
This limitation on indigent inmates does not apply to privileged mail to the courts, licensed attorneys, clergy, and state or federal governmental offices and officials. Postage will be paid by the sheriff's department.
Confidential or privileged communications shall include letters to or from a judge, attorney, elected official or authorized members of the clergy.Outgoing mail by inmates to confidential or privileged communication sources as described here shall be SEALED.
You CAN NOT have any envelopes or stamped envelopes mailed in for your use. You must purchase from the canteen.
You will not be allowed to have stamps mailed in to you.
All outgoing non-privileged mail shall be given to jail staff UNSEALED so it can be monitored before mailing to see if the communication would be in violation of the law or disrupt jail security.
You are not allowed to write other inmates in the Grant County Jail, or an inmate that maybe housed in another facility as a safe keeper while you are an inmate in the jail.
A safe keeper is defined as an inmate of the Grant County Jail being housed at another jail due to overcrowding or for other reasons.
It is the policy of the jail to process all mail promptly. The mail may, be delayed a reasonable time for staff to evaluate it. Staff while not disregard other essential jail duties to evaluate the mail.
All outgoing mail received into the jail office by 10pm (lock down) will be mailed the next day except on Saturday, Sunday and Holidays.
Mail is picked up at the Post Office by a department supervisor Monday through Friday. There may be exceptions to this rule on occasion for holidays etc.
The staff will open and inspect non-privileged letters for contraband.
When mail volume is high, letters may be opened and inspected in the jail office and handed out to inmates when time allows.
All incoming mail must contain the full name and address of both the sender and the inmate on the envelope.
Envelopes not containing this specific information will be placed in the inmate’s file and handed over to the inmate at the time of release, or be returned to sender.
All incoming mail must be postmarked.
Mail will NOT be accepted at visitation for inmates. Mail cannot be dropped off for inmates. This includes greeting cards for inmates. All cards and letters must be sent to the inmate through the mail.
Money received in any form in the incoming mail will be removed from the envelope.
If the mail contains cash or money order, it will be posted to the inmate’s canteen account.
ALL MONIES MUST BE DEPOSITED IN THE INMATE’S CANTEEN ACCOUNT. It will not be placed in property envelopes.
Personal checks that an inmate receives in the mail will not be cashed . They will be place with the inmate’s property.
Any contraband found in incoming mail shall be confiscated and preserved as evidence.
The envelope or package containing the contraband will also be confiscated by staff and placed into evidence.
Senders of contraband may be referred to the district attorney for prosecution.
No publication that is obscene or depicts methods of weapons manufacture, means of escape, or material, which may compromise jail security, will be allowed in the jail.
All non-privileged mail shall be promptly returned to that sender if it is determined that delivery of such mail would likely disrupt jail discipline or security. Both the inmate and the sender will be notified in writing of such mail refusal.
Jail staff will strictly follow court-ordered contact restrictions.
The jail staff shall document all refusals of incoming mail.
Violation of these rules may result in:
Prosecution, where a violation of the law is suspected, or known to have occurred.
Limitations on of both incoming, and outgoing non-privileged mail for a period of time corresponding to the nature, and degree of the violation.
Any limitation of the inmate’s mail may be appealed to the jail administrator. The administrator will respond in writing. The administrator will state whether the facts support the mail limitation, or the mail limitation will be removed.
Inmates will no longer be allowed to have magazines, books or newspapers sent in from the general public. They must come directly from the publisher.
The inmate must use the following mailing address.
(Inmate's name) must be on the mailing address or you may not receive it.
It will be the inmate's responsibility to stop delivery of the magazines, books, or newspapers once you are released from jail.
We will not forward or retain any magazines, books or newspapers mailed in after your release.
All other magazines, books, or newspapers must be ordered off the commissary list.
Televisions will be provided by the jail . NO television sets brought to the jail will be allowed in.
The staff will control the on and off of the television.
Any pounding, yelling, or covering of the camera or television will result in the loss of the television privilege.
Inmates will have access to these rooms as necessary, when time and space permits.
This is a privilege and will be denied to inmates who fail to follow the jail rules.
These rooms are to be kept in a neat and orderly fashion.
All other books must be ordered off the commissary list.
If you receive the newspaper on a daily basis, you must pass out the complete paper from the previous day before you receive the next edition.
Any type of reading material that can be purchased over the local newsstand is allowed.
Adult material that contains sexually explicit photos and or text will not be allowed.
Articles that may compromise the security of the jail will also be denied.
Any questionable publications will need to be approved by the administration.
The removal of any pictures from a magazine, will result in the loss of the magazine, and the loss of all future mailings of the magazine during your incarceration.
Any contraband found in any material could result in prosecution of both the inmate and person sending in the contraband.
There will be only five games in any block at a time.
Only games purchased off the commissary will be allowed.
Game pieces that are consistently found on the floor will be removed and destroyed.
Colored pencils, crayons, or paints are NOT ALLOWED.
Meals will be served at the discretion of the cook.
Inmates are expected to arrive at the food pass to collect their meal.
At no time will an inmate pick up a food tray for another inmate, unless directed to do so by jail staff.
Any uneaten food shall be returned on the food tray to the kitchen.
NO food is to be saved and eaten at a later time.
All trays and utensils shall be returned to the food pass in a neat and orderly fashion.
All Stellar Commissary orders must be submitted by inmates using the phone system.You may make changes to your order until 10:00 PM lock down on Monday evenings.(There are NO exceptions) The deadline may be changed due to holidays, or other unexpected reasons. Inmates will be notified about these changes.
Stellar Commissary orders are delivered once per week.
There will be NO exchanges on your order unless you received the wrong product or the product is damaged.
Daily canteen slips where inmates may request, toilet paper, razors, phone cards, request forms etc. must be turned in by 10:00 PM each evening.
Make sure the slips are filled out completely with your full name, date, and cellblock.
Clearly mark on canteen slip what item(s) you want and the quantity.
If staff cannot read your markings on the canteen slip you will not receive that item. (NO exceptions)
Inmates will also request your hygiene products that are furnished by the jail on the canteen slips.
Indigent packs containing shampoo, soap and toothpaste can be requested on the daily canteen slip that you submit on Tuesday evenings.
Indigent packs are only handed out once a week.
All needs and requests for the next day are to be made on these canteen slips.
Only emergency requests will be answered at any other time.
You may purchase items on the canteen slips as long as you have money in your account.
The staff WILL NOT give any items on credit.
You may also purchase phone cards in $10.00 amounts only on the daily canteen slip.
You may purchase as many phone cards as you want, provided you have the money in your account.
Phone cards will be sold on Monday thru Friday only. No weekends, or Holidays.
DO NOT ask staff to buy a phone card after you receive money in the mail. Phone cards can only be purchased on canteen slips.
The jail staff will hand out the canteen during the day when time permits.
Inmates will not pound for their canteen.
Pounding for the canteen will result in the loss of canteen.
If you do not come to the food pass to accept your canteen when your name is called, you will not receive your canteen for that day. Any monies deducted from your canteen account for that day, will be credited back to your canteen account.
The only exception to this is when the inmate is out of the cellblock, or in the shower.
Canteen items shall be stored in an orderly fashion.
Canteen items shall remain in the cellblock.
NO canteen items can be taken to the library, conference room, visiting booths, etc.
The Grant County Sheriff’s Department is NOT responsible for replacement of lost or stolen inmate canteen items.
Inmate discipline may include the loss of canteen privileges.
Medical Care, Dental Care, Prescription and Non-Prescription Medication Rules
NO INMATE WILL BE DENIED EMERGENCY MEDICAL OR DENTAL CARE because they are indigent.
Medical care will never be refused to any inmate. Those inmates who do not have any money to cover the medical expenses will still be seen by the nurse (or doctor) and given the needed medications. A negative balance will be placed on the inmate’s canteen account in the amount of the medical expense. The 50% Deposit Rule for inmate’s canteen account will be followed.
Inmates are responsible for providing proof of medical insurance or medical assistance to the jail. The inmate remains responsible for all costs not covered by insurance.
All inmates shall be held financially responsible for all medical care, dental care, prescription, and non-prescription medication costs during their incarceration. The individual inmate shall pay for all medical care, dental care, and prescription, and non-prescription medication costs including those performed inside, or outside the jail while an inmate of this facility. These payments shall be deducted from the inmate’s canteen account maintained by the Grant County Jail.
It is the policy of the Grant County Jail to require inmates to make a co-payment for medical services. These services will be deducted from the inmate’s canteen account when applicable.
From the start of an inmate’s incarceration and up to five days prior to his or her release from the jail, the Grant County Jail staff shall be limited to deducting up to 50% of each deposit made by an inmate, or another person on behalf of an inmate to the canteen account for reimbursement of monies owed by the inmate to the jail for medical care, dental care, prescription, and non-prescription medication charges.
Grant County Jail will also deduct 50% of your current balance when entering a new medical expense bill to your canteen account.
This 50% limitation shall end on the fifth day prior to an inmate’s release from the Grant County Jail. The jail can then apply the remaining balance in an inmate’s canteen account for medical care, dental care, prescription, and non-prescription medication charges owed by the inmate to the jail.
If, at the time an inmate is released from the Grant County Jail, and the inmate still owes the jail money for medical care, dental care, prescription and/or non-prescription medication costs, the inmate will be given an opportunity to set up a monthly payment plan with the Jail Administrator.
An inmate requesting medical services must complete the Medical Request Form; inmates must sign and date this form before any action will be taken.
Please be specific with the information you wish to convey to the medical staff.
All medical request forms are treated with confidentially by the staff.
Inmates requesting to see the nurse shall do so on this form.
If at any time during your incarceration at this facility you feel you need medical attention, you may request to see the nurse. The nurse will examine you and either suggest treatment or will seek treatment information from the jail physician.
If you have a medical emergency, or feel your medical condition cannot wait to see the nurse on the nurse’s next visit, you should notify the jail staff immediately.
These request forms can be obtained when canteen is delivered.
Request to see the nurse costs $3.00
Visits initiated by the jail nurse (follow-up visits, TB testing, etc.) will not be charged.
The jail physician will see inmates.
Inmates must have the jail nurse authorize a doctor visit
The charges will be based on what medical services are provided.
The fees are set by the doctor’s office.
Fees will start at $47.50 and are subject to change without notice.
All lab work, x-ray, medication, etc, is in addition to the doctor’s fee.
You will be charged for any expenses in the event you are required, or you have requested to see a medical doctor, dentist, or any other medical professional.
It is the inmate’s responsibility to pay for any hospital visits emergency or non-emergency, and ambulance fees.
No prescription drugs will be administered to an inmate unless prescribed by a doctor.
The cost of all prescription and non-prescription medications that are given out, or prescribed by the nurse, doctor, or any other physician or medical provider will be assessed to the inmate.
Inmates may have prescriptions dropped off at the jail provided the medication is in the pharmacy issued container.
All writing on the label must be legible and the prescription must be current.
Any prescriptions that are dropped off at the jail for an inmate, or that the inmate brings to the jail must be approved by the jail nurse before the medication can be administered to the inmate.
There may be some exceptions to this rule as the medical department of the jail deems necessary.
During your confinement you will be issued items that must be returned upon the completion of your incarceration period. These items will be returned in the same condition in which they were given to you outside of normal wear and tear.
All inmates will be held financially responsible for any damage or loss of property owned by the Grant County Sheriff’s Department due to any inappropriate and deliberate inmate misbehavior.
Inmates who damage or destroy property of the Grant County Sheriff’s Department will have further disciplinary and/or have criminal actions taken against them.
Upon your admission to this facility, you will be issued the following: (1) Jail uniform, (2) sheets, (1) towel, (1) washcloth, (1) mattress, (1) blanket. During the months between Oct. 1st and May 1st you may request a second blanket.
These items will be returned in the same condition in which they were given to you outside of normal wear and tear.
Inmates will be held financially responsible for any damage or loss of these items.
Each inmate will also be issued (1) plastic container. You are to keep all of your personal property in this container. What does not fit into container will not be allowed in your cell. DO NOT SIT OR STAND ON THESE CONTAINERS.
You will be given (1) Admission Kit when you are booked into the Grant County Jail. You will be charged for this kit. It will contain personal hygiene items which include, soap, comb, toothbrush, toothpaste, shampoo, a pen, and a drinking cup.
Each inmate is responsible for the items he/she is issued and will be held financially responsible for any misuse, damage or loss.
Inmates are required to shower daily. (Unless you are in isolation or administrative segregation.) The Grant County Nurse, other medical personnel, or staff may direct an inmate to shower for medical or hygiene reasons.
All newly admitted inmates must shower when they placed in their cellblock to maintain cleanliness and sanitation in the jail.
Used toothbrushes, combs, empty toothpaste packet, empty toilet paper tubes, and pen must be returned prior to getting new ones issued.
Razors must be purchased off the weekly Stellar Commissary list. You may request a razor by making your request for a razor on the daily hygiene product list. If you request a razor, you must return the razor to the jail staff by lunch that day.
Female hygiene products may be purchased off the weekly Stellar Commissary list. If inmate is indigent we will provide pads.
No inmate will be denied hygiene products if they are indigent. We will maintain an account for all hygiene products which you requested and did not pay for at the time of use. If at any time during your incarceration you receive money, the jail staff will apply the money towards your balance owed for hygiene products until your debts are paid off.
Indigent inmates may request a weekly indigent pack which contains soap, shampoo, and toothpaste. There will be a small charge for this pack which will be added to your account.
No inmate will be allowed to accumulate excessive amounts of jail issued hygiene products.
No inmate may bring from home, or have anyone mail in personal items unless they have a doctor’s order for the item needed. The item will also need to be approved by the jail nurse and the jail administrator.
You will furnish your own underwear and socks. Boxer shorts, socks, and sports bra may be purchased from the commissary.
You will be allowed to have in your possession a reasonable amount of underwear.
Allowed Underwear: Men: boxers, or briefs, and socks in WHITE ONLY and Women: bras(no under wire style), boxers, or panties, and socks in WHITE ONLY
You may not have any clothing mailed in to you.
Sweatshirts may only be purchased off of the Stellar Commissary order forms.
No tee shirts, sweat pants, long johns or Bermuda shorts. If any of these items are needed the medical staff must first approve them.
Slippers will be provided by the jail.
You may also purchase shower shoes from the canteen.
All laundry will be done by the jail staff and at their convenience.
All jail uniforms, bedding and towels will be turned in for exchange at the jail staff’s request.
You are to turn in a complete exchange of jail uniforms, bedding and towels for a clean supply.
You are to remove any knots in the sheets.
Make sure there is nothing in the pockets of the jail uniform.
The jail is not responsible for any lost items left in the laundry. (This includes phone cards.)
You will be responsible for the cleanliness of your cell and day room area.
Beds will be made by 8:00 AM and remain made until lockup at 10:00 PM. You may lie on top of the covers at any time during the day, but you will not be in bed under the covers between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., unless you are on sick call.
NOTHING may be attached to or placed over any light fixture, window, viewing port, wall or bars. Blankets or sheets are not to be hung from the top bunk to form a tent, nor used as a hammock. Sheets and blankets may not be tied to cell bars to prevent staff from observing inmates in the cell area.
There shall be NO writing or pasting items on walls, tables, or fixtures within the cell or day room area.
THE TOILET NOT TO BE USED AS A WASTEPAPER BASKET!!! No item that is not intended for the toilet will be placed in the toilet!! If items are found in your stool that do not belong (ie: canteen wrappings, plastic items etc.) You will loose canteen privileges for your entire period of incarceration.
The City of Lancaster frequently checks the sewer lines coming from the jail and reports to Jail Administration all items found. This has caused problems with the sewer system in the past. If it comes to the point that the City levies a fee against the jail for increased maintenance costs then the canteen will be discontinued.
DO NOT JUMP, SIT OR STAND ON ANY TABLE OR FIXTURE
Cleaning supplies will be furnished by the staff to each cell block on assigned days or as needed by inmates.
Inmates are to clean the cells and the cell block to the satisfaction of the jail staff.
Cleaning by inmates will include mopping the day room and cell floors, cleaning the shower, washing view port windows, cleaning and sanitizing the sinks and toilets, and cleaning the day room table.
If the cell block is not cleaned when the cleaning supplies are made available, the cleaning supplies will be removed and any television, and radio in the cell block will be turned off until the next time the cleaning supplies are available, and the cell block is cleaned.
Inmates are expected to make use of the cleaning supplies when they are given to them.
Only ordained ministers are allowed to visit with inmates.
The jail has several ministers that come in on a regular basis. Inmates may attend these services if they wish.
At no time will an inmate be removed from religious services to meet with a visitor, attorney, or attend GED, etc.
Inmates may request in writing that a clergy be called and a member of the jail staff will do so.
Inmates may request in writing to have their own minister be allowed to visit. These visits will take place in one of the visiting booths.




